.TH yaourtrc 5 "July 8, 2007"
.LO 1
.SH NAME
yaourtrc \- the configfile for yaourt

.SH SYNOPSIS
.IR /etc/yaourtrc 
or 
.IR /home/user/.yaourtrc 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yaourt(8)
obtains configuration data from the following sources in the following order:

    1.   command-line options

    2.   user's configuration file (~/.yaourtrc)

    3.   system-wide configuration file (/etc/yaourtrc)


.B AlwaysUpgradeAur
  If set to "yes", always search for new version of packages installed from AUR Unsupported when upgrading (yaourt -Su).

.B AlwaysUpgradeDevel 
  If set to "yes", always search for new version of developpement CVS/SVN packages when upgrading (yaourt -Su).

.B AlwaysForce
  If set to yes, always bypass file conflict checks and overwrite conflicting files.

.B AurVoteSupport
  If set to "no", yaourt don't check the vote status for inclusion/keeping in [community], and it is unable to vote.

.B AutoSaveBackupFile
  If set to "yes", after each install, yaourt search for config files to backup (.pacnew files). It store all files in /var/lib/yaourt/. These files will be used later with yaourt -C to automerge current config files with new config files (.pacnew).
This option requires root password or sudo configured to allow runing /usr/bin/pacdiffviewer without password.

.B ColorMod
  Define the color style to use. ColorMod can be "normal", "lightbackground", "nocolor" or "textonly".
    example: ColorMod lightbackground

Note: nocolor use Bold and Italic fonts. TextOnly remove all special caracters and acts like UpdateTerminalTitle=no

.B DontNeedToPressEnter
  If set to "no", user needs to press Enter for each "yes/no" question.

.B EditPkgbuild
  If set to "no", don't propose to edit PKGBUILD (from AUR or from ABS).

.B ExportToLocalRepository
</where/you/want>
  Specify the folder where yaourt export built packages for local repository
This option export .pkg.tar.gz + PKGBUILD + local sources files.

.B ForceEnglish
  If set to "yes", yaourt use English for makepkg and pacman instead of system language.

.B LastCommentsNumber
  Show X last comments for packages built from AUR Unsupported.
  default: LastCommentsNumber 5

.B LastCommentsOrder
  If set to asc, comments from AUR are listed from older to newer.
  Set LastCommentsOrder to desc to show newer comments on top of the screen.

.B NoConfirm
  If set to yes, always use the default choice without confirmation.

.B PacmanBin
<PATH>
  Specify the pacman binary to use with yaourt (for pacman-color.sh)

    example: PacmanBin /usr/bin/pacman-color

.B PkgbuildEditor 
<editorname>
  Define the editor to use (if the environment variable $EDITOR is not set) for PKGBUILD editing.

    example: PkgbuildEditor gvim

.B SearchInAurUnsupported
  If set to "no", don't search for packages on AUR Unsupported

.B TmpDirectory
</where/you/want>
  Specify the folder to save tempory files (default is /tmp).

.B SourceforgeMirror
  Define here your prefered Sourceforge mirror: (none surfnet ufpr heanet easynews umn switch belnet kent mesh optusnet jaist puzzle superb-east nchc superb-west)

    example: SourceforgeMirror heanet

.B UpdateTerminalTitle
  If set to "no", don't show the current yaourt's action in terminal title.
  By default, yaourt show messages like "Installing xxx from AUR".
  It's recommended to add something like this in your .bashrc

    example: PROMPT_COMMAND='echo -ne "\\033]0;${USER}@${HOSTNAME}: ${PWD}\\007"'


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR yaourt (8)
.BR pacman (8),

See the archlinux.fr website at <http://www.archlinux.fr> for more current information about yaourt.

See the Arch Linux website at <http://www.archlinux.org> for more current
information on the distribution and the \fBpacman\fP family of tools.


.SH AUTHORS

wain <wain@archlinux.fr>

.SH MANPAGE AUTHORS
.nf
wain  <wain@archlinux.fr>
.if
